# 2023-Statistical-Risk-Assessment
Replication files for the 2023 edition of USHMM's statistical risk assessment, using R version 4.2.3 (2023-03-15).

To reproduce the input data "prepared2022predictors-2023-10-26-2.csv", start with 1.Buildcountryyears_and_mk_data. For the 2023 SRA we updated the country-year template that we use as the basis for our analysis to match Gleditsch and Ward's country codes. We also made some updates to our starting data on mass killings, and the way that we code the dependent variable. The file "build_countryyears_mkevents.R" creates the initial country-year dataset with mass killing data from 1945 - 2021, available in the file "basedata2023_13sept2023.csv". The files stored in 2.Make-new-base-data take this initial template and add data on other variables as well as new data for 2022. The file "2a.recreatebasedata2023.rmd" incorporates data on variables from our previous updates, as well as historical data for new variables through 2021. The file "2b.Adding in new data-2023 update" is an R Markdown file that appends data for each country in 2022 to the prepared data through 2021. This creates the input file used for modeling, "prepared2022predictors-2023-10-26-2.csv". 

To run the models and replicate the risk rankings without reproducing the base data, go to "3.Modeling" and open the file "processandmodel_5nov2023.R". Use the input file "prepared2022predictors-2023-10-26-2.csv" that is available in the same folder. "final_forecasts_data_9Nov_hackregion.csv" and "coefficients_9Nov_hackregion.csv" are the outputs of the "processandmodel_5nov2023.R" file. The former file shows the predicted probabilities for each country, and the latter shows the weights for each of the predictors selected.

--
